   Virt Install News
   =================

Release 0.400.0 (September 10, 2008)
------------------------------------

This release includes:

  - New tool 'virt-convert': Allows converting between different types of
      virt configuration files. Currently only supports vmx -> virt-image
  - New tool 'virt-pack': Converts virt-image xml format to vmx and packs
      in a tar.gz. (Note this will likely be merged with virt-convert in
      the future)
  - virt-install: Support for remote VM installation. Can use install media
      and disk images on remote host if shared via libvirt. Allows can
      provisioning storage on remote pools.
  - virt-install new options:
      new --wait option, allows putting a hard time limit on installs
      new --sound option, to create VM with soundcard emulation
      new --disk option, allows specifying media as a path, storage volume, or
        a pool to provision storage on, device type, and several other options.
        Deprecates --file, --size, --nonsparse.
      new --prompt option. Input prompting is no longer the default, this
        option turns it back on.
  - virt-install: allow setting cpu pinning information for qemu/kvm VMs
  - virt-install: numa support via --cpuset=auto option
  - virt-image: --replace option to overwrite existing VM image file
  - virt-image: support multiple network interfaces in virt-image format
  - use virtio disk/net drivers if chosen os entry supports it (Fedora 9/10,
      Ubuntu Hardy)
  - Numerous bug fixes and minor improvements.

Release 0.300.3
---------------

This release addresses a number of major bugs, and optimizes
aspecst of the installation process. When probing for OS distro
type it will test file existance, rather than fetching the entire
file. RFC compliant NFS uris are now accepted & converted where
needed.  When probing for Red Hat distro variants, look for the
.treeinfo file to determine initrd/kernel locations. Print user
friendly error instead of stack traces, and hide bogus libvirt
error messages from console. Add a --noreboot flag to virt-install
to prevent the automatic reboot at end of installation. Use the
libvirt capabilities XML to determine the guest types supported
by a hypervisor. Add --force option to prevent any interactive
prompting.

Release 0.300.2
---------------

This release fixes a couple of minor bugs. XML attributes are
correctly escaped in the XML. vCPUs can be pinned to pCPUs at
install time. Windows guests will be automatically configured
to use localtime. Improved input validation

Release 0.300.1
---------------

This release fixes a couple of minor bugs. The detection of new
Fedora distros is fixed. The ability to PXE boot install fully
virtualized guests is enabled. Installation of QEMU guests from
remote ISO images is fixed. Choice of default architecture is
fixed on 32-bit.

Release 0.300.0
---------------

This release introduces the virt-image tool which provides the
ability to create guests based on a pre-define image. The image
provides metadata describing the required host virtualization
capabilities, the recommend resource allocations and one or more
pre-installed disk templates. From this is can instantiate new
guests on any suitable hypervisor supported by libvirt. With
the virt-install tool, all new fullyvirtualized guests now get
a USB tablet device configured providing an easier to use pointer.
Further improvements are made to input validation to catch user
errors earlier. Use of the 'xm console' and 'vncviewer' external
programs has been replaced with 'virsh console' and 'virt-viewer'

Release 0.200.0
---------------

This release introduces the virt-clone tool which provides the
ability to clone an existing inactive guest. The disk images
will be copied, new MAC address, UUID and name will be given to
the guest. Documentation is improved with the addition of manual
pages for both virt-install and virt-clone. Validation of input
parameters has been further enhanced, and re-factored to allow
sharing with virt-manager. The virt-install tool can be used to
boot live CD images, with or without underlying storage.

Release 0.103.0
---------------

This release has again focused on stablization and input
validation. UUIDs are now checked for syntactic correctness.
Fixed clashes with disk name & CDROM. Automatically reboot
Windows guest installs with CDROM still attached. The '-'
character is allowed in guest names. OS types /variants are
now specified using their short names. The way Red Hat distros
are detected is changed to be more robust, and cope with CentOS
and RHEL 5 tree layouts.

Release 0.102.0
---------------

This release has focused on stabilization & improved validation
of user inputs. MAC addresses, UUIDs are checked for uniqueness
wrt to other virtual machines. A few minor bug fixes to avoid
deprecated python features, and installation bugs are resolved.

Release 0.101.0
---------------

This release introduces the first support for provisioning
of QEMU / KVM virtual machines. This requires an updated
libvirt of at least 0.2.0 to enable the qemu driver. The
code for fetching bootable kernel/initrd images has been
refactored to facilitate porting to deal with other non
Fedora / RHEL operating systems. Prototype support for dealing
with SuSE paravirtualized installs is provided. The bootable
ISO image for fully virtualized installs can also be fetched
at runtime from an NFS/HTTP/FTP site, or equivalent initrd
and kernels for baremetal. A list of guest operating systems
is now maintained to enable virtual hardware configuration 
to be optimized to suit a particular guest OS.
